---
title : "Snakedoku"
permalink: /posts/snake
excerpt: "Write the numbers on the board... 1, 2, 3... Wait, did you say a snake?"
---

Fill an $n \times n$ grid with numbers from $1$ to $n$, such that each number appears exactly $n$ times. The grid must satisfy the following conditions:
- Latin Square Property: No two identical numbers may appear in the same row or column.
- The Snake Path: There must exist a path (the "Snake") that:
  - Visits every one of the $n^2$ cells exactly once.
  - Moves only between orthogonally adjacent cells (up, down, left, right).
  - Starts at a cell labeled 1 and follows the sequence $1, 2, \dots, n, 1, 2, \dots, n, \dots$ until the end of the path.

The figure below illustrates the construction for $n=2$. There is a *Red Snake*!

<div align="center">
  
<script type="text/tikz">
  \begin{tikzpicture}[scale=1.5, font=\huge]
    \draw[thick] (0,0) grid (2,2);
    
    \node at (0.5, 1.5) {1}; % (1,1)
    \node at (1.5, 1.5) {2}; % (1,2)
    \node at (1.5, 0.5) {1}; % (2,2)
    \node at (0.5, 0.5) {2}; % (2,1)
    
    \draw[->, red, line width=2pt, opacity=0.5] (0.5, 1.5) -- (1.5, 1.5);
    \draw[->, red, line width=2pt, opacity=0.5] (1.5, 1.5) -- (1.5, 0.5);
    \draw[->, red, line width=2pt, opacity=0.5] (1.5, 0.5) -- (0.5, 0.5);
    
  \end{tikzpicture}
</script>

</div>

**Questions**
- For which values of $n$ does such a configuration exist?
- What is the general strategy for filling the numbers?

<details style="margin-bottom: 1.0rem !important;">
  <summary>Hint! (Click!)</summary>
  Let’s try coloring the cells like a chessboard. What do you think happens?
</details>

> Do you like <a href="https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Sudoku" target="_blank">Sudoku (Wiki)</a>? I actually came up with this puzzle while solving one, which is where the name 'Snakedoku' came from. The name might sound a bit intimidating, but I promise it's quite approachable!"

<details>
  <summary>Answer (Click!)</summary>
  This is only possible when $n$ is even. I'll skip the detailed proof for now and add it later.
</details>
